Close your eyes. Forget everything about XOR distance. Imagine you are in your home and decide to organise an halloween party. You want to invite your friends, and you want them to be able to invite their own friends, but you don't want your party to be public. The party location isn't decided yet. You make a flyer out of the halloween party idea, this flyer is the key to finding the party. This flyer contains the geolocation where the address of the party will be found. 
OK that is weird. When you decide/book the party venue, you need to make this place routable so that the guests can find it. So you take your car and decide to drive to this location indicated on the flyer where you will store the party's venue address. This is the DHT. You take first the highway to get to the location faster, then national road, regional road, local road, and go to the closest house to the geographic position indicated on the flyer. There you will store the map on how to get to your party with the party address. Your guests will be able thank to the flyer to find the location where you stored the map, and finally attend your party.

But: anyone that decide to follow them will eventually find the map and will be able to attend the party, it is not everyone, but just anyone that decides to follow you or any of your guests.

Now imagine that you want to store an usb stick with an encrypted map. The map can be decrypted only by people that have the flyer. You have to store the usb stick in a different location, and as it is a new way of routing, you cannot use your car as people could too easily follow you. In order to use the new private method you need to take a light train/tram. You need to store it at a specific location, but the train network isn't as spread as the roads network. Hence the closest house where you are going to store the encrypted map may be far from the actual location, but it is still going to be the closest place. Your friends will be able to retrieve it thanks to the flyer and decrypt the map. People could still try to follow them, but they wouldn't be able to read the map. 

In order to optimize the infrastructure, we don't want to have disjoint sets of roads and rails, because of maintainance. We would need to have a lot of railroads going from our place out. We want to combine 

-----

When looking for a provider record, content addressed in the real world, you can either take your car or the train. People can follow you easily on the car, but not on the train. That is the new private requests. The routing to get from A to B is going to be different. 
